README.md, before:

# go-procfile-util [![CircleCI](https://circleci.com/gh/josegonzalez/go-procfile-util.svg?style=svg)](https://circleci.com/gh/josegonzalez/go-procfile-util)

A tool for interacting with Procfiles.

## Installation

Install it using the "go get" command:

    go get github.com/josegonzalez/go-procfile-util

## Usage

All commands take a `-P` or `--procfile` flag to specify an alternative `Procfile` path. If not specified, `procfile-util` will attempt to read the `Procfile` from the current directory.

### check

> check that the specified procfile is valid

```shell
procfile-util check
```

### delete

> delete a process type from a procfile

This command does not retain comments or extra newline characters. Specifying both the `write-path` and `stdout` flags will result in an error.

```shell
# delete the web process and write the file
procfile-util delete --process web

# delete the web process and write output to other.Procfile
procfile-util delete --process web --write-path other.Procfile

# delete the web process and write output to stdout
procfile-util delete --process web --stdout
```

### exists

> check if a process type exists

```shell
# returns 0 if the web process type exists
procfile-util exists -p web

# returns 1 if the non-existent process type does not exist
procfile-util exists -p non-existent
```

### expand

> expands a procfile against a specific environment

```shell
# expand variables with no implicit env vars
# will result in empty string for variable replacements
procfile-util expand

# specify a default-port to use (default: 5000)
procfile-util expand --default-port 3000

# expand variables with getenv used for variable expansion
# may use any variable available when executing procfile-util
procfile-util expand --allow-getenv

# expand variables with a parsed .env file used for variable expansion
procfile-util expand --env-file .env

# combines getenv and .env file parsing to provide variable expansion
procfile-util expand --allow-getenv --env-file .env

# specify the default-port when performing variable expansion
procfile-util expand --allow-getenv --env-file .env --default-port 3000
```

### list

> list all process types in a procfile

```shell
procfile-util list
```

### set

> set the command for a process type in a procfile

This command does not retain comments or extra newline characters. Specifying both the `write-path` and `stdout` flags will result in an error.

```shell
# set the web process and write the file
procfile-util set --process web --command "python app.py -p $PORT"

# set the web process and write output to other.Procfile
procfile-util set --process web --command "python app.py -p $PORT" --write-path other.Procfile

# set the web process and write output to stdout
procfile-util set --process web --command "python app.py -p $PORT" --stdout
```

### show

> show the command for a specific process type

```shell
# shows the command for the web process
procfile-util show -p web

# shows the command for the web process
# specify a default-port to use (default: 5000)
procfile-util show -p web --default-port 3000

# shows the command for the web process
# expand variables with getenv used for variable expansion
# may use any variable available when executing procfile-util
procfile-util show -p web --allow-getenv

# shows the command for the web process
# expand variables with a parsed .env file used for variable expansion
procfile-util show -p web --env-file .env

# shows the command for the web process
# combines getenv and .env file parsing to provide variable expansion
procfile-util show -p web --allow-getenv --env-file .env

# shows the command for the web process
# specify the default-port when performing variable expansion
procfile-util show web --allow-getenv --env-file .env --default-port 3000
```

Commit message:

feat: add support for exporting an init file

README.md, after:

# go-procfile-util [![CircleCI](https://circleci.com/gh/josegonzalez/go-procfile-util.svg?style=svg)](https://circleci.com/gh/josegonzalez/go-procfile-util)

A tool for interacting with Procfiles.

## Installation

Install it using the "go get" command:

    go get github.com/josegonzalez/go-procfile-util

## Usage

All commands take a `-P` or `--procfile` flag to specify an alternative `Procfile` path. If not specified, `procfile-util` will attempt to read the `Procfile` from the current directory.

### check

> check that the specified procfile is valid

```shell
procfile-util check
```

### delete

> delete a process type from a procfile

This command does not retain comments or extra newline characters. Specifying both the `write-path` and `stdout` flags will result in an error.

```shell
# delete the web process and write the file
procfile-util delete --process web

# delete the web process and write output to other.Procfile
procfile-util delete --process web --write-path other.Procfile

# delete the web process and write output to stdout
procfile-util delete --process web --stdout
```

### exists

> check if a process type exists

```shell
# returns 0 if the web process type exists
procfile-util exists -p web

# returns 1 if the non-existent process type does not exist
procfile-util exists -p non-existent
```

### expand

> expands a procfile against a specific environment

```shell
# expand variables with no implicit env vars
# will result in empty string for variable replacements
procfile-util expand

# specify a default-port to use (default: 5000)
procfile-util expand --default-port 3000

# expand variables with getenv used for variable expansion
# may use any variable available when executing procfile-util
procfile-util expand --allow-getenv

# expand variables with a parsed .env file used for variable expansion
procfile-util expand --env-file .env

# combines getenv and .env file parsing to provide variable expansion
procfile-util expand --allow-getenv --env-file .env

# specify the default-port when performing variable expansion
procfile-util expand --allow-getenv --env-file .env --default-port 3000
```

### export

> export the application to another process management format

Due to argument parsing limitations, the `--location` flag is currently required.

In addition, not all formats support all arguments, and not all arguments have examples below.

```shell
# export systemd init files to the `tmp` directory
# support formats include: [runit, systemd, systemd-user]
# the default format is: systemd
procfile-util export --format systemd --location tmpp

# override the app name
procfile-util export --location tmp --app node-js-app

# set the group and user used to launch processes
procfile-util export --location tmp --group root --user root

# set a working directory path for the process
procfile-util export --location tmp --working-directory /root
```

### list

> list all process types in a procfile

```shell
procfile-util list
```

### set

> set the command for a process type in a procfile

This command does not retain comments or extra newline characters. Specifying both the `write-path` and `stdout` flags will result in an error.

```shell
# set the web process and write the file
procfile-util set --process web --command "python app.py -p $PORT"

# set the web process and write output to other.Procfile
procfile-util set --process web --command "python app.py -p $PORT" --write-path other.Procfile

# set the web process and write output to stdout
procfile-util set --process web --command "python app.py -p $PORT" --stdout
```

### show

> show the command for a specific process type

```shell
# shows the command for the web process
procfile-util show -p web

# shows the command for the web process
# specify a default-port to use (default: 5000)
procfile-util show -p web --default-port 3000

# shows the command for the web process
# expand variables with getenv used for variable expansion
# may use any variable available when executing procfile-util
procfile-util show -p web --allow-getenv

# shows the command for the web process
# expand variables with a parsed .env file used for variable expansion
procfile-util show -p web --env-file .env

# shows the command for the web process
# combines getenv and .env file parsing to provide variable expansion
procfile-util show -p web --allow-getenv --env-file .env

# shows the command for the web process
# specify the default-port when performing variable expansion
procfile-util show web --allow-getenv --env-file .env --default-port 3000
```
